		   ACE 2004 Multilingual Training Corpus 
				LDC2005T09

			       February 14, 2005



1.0  Introduction

This publication contains the complete set of English, Arabic and Chinese
training data for the 2004 Automatic Content Extraction (ACE) technology
evaluation.  The corpus consists of data of various types annotated for
entities and relations and was created by Linguistic Data Consortium with
support from the ACE Program, with additional assistance from the DARPA
TIDES (Translingual Information Detection, Extraction and Summarization)
Program.  This data was previously distributed as an e-corpus (LDC2004E17)
to participants in the 2004 ACE evaluation.

The objective of the ACE program is to develop automatic content extraction
technology to support automatic processing of human language in text form.
In September 2004, sites were evaluated on system performance in six areas:
Entity Detection and Recognition (EDR), Entity Mention Detection (EMD), EDR
Co-reference, Relation Detection and Recognition (RDR), Relation Mention
Detection (RMD), and RDR given reference entities. All tasks were evaluated
in three languages: English, Chinese and Arabic.

The current publication consists of the official training data for these
evaluation tasks.  A seventh evaluation area, Timex Detection and
Recognition, is supported by the ACE Time Normalization (TERN) 2004 English
Training Data Corpus (LDC2005T907). The TERN corpus source data largely
overlaps with the English source data contained in the current release.

A complete description of the ACE 2004 Evaluation can be found on the ACE
Program website maintained by the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST): http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/ace/

For more information about linguistic resources for the ACE Program,
including annotation guidelines, task definitions, free annotation tools
and other documentation, please visit LDC's ACE website:
http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE

1.1  Data Profile

Data for each language is contained in individual directories.  Within each 
language directory, files are divided into subdirectories by source type:

  bnews (Arabic, Chinese, English)  - Broadcast news data from the TDT-4 Corpus

  nwire (Arabic, Chinese, English) - Newswire data from the TDT-4 Corpus

  arabic_treebank (Arabic, English) - data from the Arabic Treebank 1
    Corpus; English translations from the MT-2003 translation data set

  chinese_treebank (Chinese, English) - data from the Chinese Treebank
   Version 4; English translations from the Chinese Treebank English
   Parallel Text Corpus

  fisher_transcripts (English) - data from the Fisher Telephone Speech
   collection, sponsored by DARPA EARS

Each language directory also contains a FileList, containing the following 
information for each file:

  FileID
  annotation status (fpDone - first pass only; qcDone - additional second 
   quality checking pass completed) 
  source type - as described above
  word count

The total volume of data for each language is summarized below:

English (All files QC-passed)

  broadcast news - 220 files (60,291 words)
  newswire - 128 files (59,840 words)
  Chinese Treebank translation - 37 files (12,337 words)
  Arabic Treebank translation - 58 files (12,855 words)
  Fisher telephone conversation - 8 files (12,630 words)
  total - 451 files (157,953 words)

Chinese (All files QC-passed)

  broadcast news - 314 files (135,405 characters; 67,702.5 words)
  newswire - 226 files (120502 characters; 60251 words)
  Chinese Treebank - 106 files (51,499 characters; 25,749.5 words)
  total - 646 files (307,406 characters; 153,703 words)

Arabic (415 files QC-passed; see Arabic/FileList_Arabic 
        for a list of QC-passed files)

  broadcast news - 304 files (63,238 words)
  newswire - 253 files (63,122 words)
  Arabic Treebank - 132 files (25,010 words)
  total - 689 files (151,360 words)

1.2  Annotation Content

Entity Detection and Tracking (EDT) is the core annotation task, providing
the foundation for all remaining tasks. We identify seven types of
entities: Person, Organization, Location, Facility, Weapon, Vehicle and
Geo-Political Entity (GPEs). Each type is further divided into subtypes
(for instance, Organization subtypes include Government, Commercial,
Educational, Non-profit, Other).  Annotators tag all mentions of each
entity within a document, whether named, nominal or pronominal.  For every
mention, the annotator identifies the maximal extent of the string that
represents the entity, and labels the head of each mention. Nested mentions
are also captured.  Each entity is classified according to its type and
subtype.  Each entity mention is further tagged according to its class
. specific, generic, attributive, negatively quantified or underspecified.
During the LNK annotation task, annotators review the entire document to
group mentions of the same entity together; they also label cases of
metonymy, where the name of one entity is used to refer to another entity
(or entities) related to it.

Relation Detection and Characterization (RDC) involves the identification
of relations between entities. RDC targets physical relations including
Located, Near and Part-Whole; social/personal relations including Business,
Family and Other; a range of employment or membership relations; relations
between artifacts and agents (including ownership); affiliation-type
relations like ethnicity; relationships between persons and GPEs like
citizenship; and finally discourse relations.  For every relation,
annotators identify two primary arguments (namely, the two ACE entities
that are linked) as well as the relation's temporal attributes.  Relations
that are supported by explicit textual evidence are distinguished from
those that depend on contextual inference on the part of the reader.

The full annotation guidelines that were followed in creating this data
release are included in the /doc directory.  Previous and more recent
versions of the ACE annotation task specifications can be found on LDC's
ACE website: http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE

1.3  File Format Description 

Each of the English, Chinese and Arabic directories contains the following
types of files.

  APF files (.apf.xml) : The official ACE Program Format.  Please refer
                         to README--APF-FORMAT for a brief
                         description of this data format and its mapping to
                         the other data formats.

  ALF files (.alf.xml) : The ACE LDC Format is an intermediate format
                         similar to APF designed to store all annotation
                         content represented in the AG files. 

  AG files (-pp.ag.xml): The LDC Annotation Graph Format (postprocessed).
                         LDC's internal annotation files format for
                         ACE. These files can be viewed with LDC's free ACE
                         annotation tools.

  Source text files (.sgm): Source text files.  All files,
                            including the Chinese and Arabic data, are in
                            UTF-8 (Unicode).

1.4  Character Counting

The annotation files use a character-based, not byte-based, offset counting
method: the first Unicode character has the offset of zero; the second
character has the offset of one, and so on.  The APF and ALF file formats
do not count SGML tags in their offsets, while the AG format does count
them.  The source SGML files use the UNIX-style end-of-line character (LF),
and each end-of-line character is counted as one character.

1.5 DTDs

There are three DTDs included in the dtd/ directory.

  APF DTD file (apf.v4.0.1.dtd): The DTD for the APF format.

  ALF DTD file (alf.v4.0.1.dtd): The DTD for the ALF format.  

  AG DTD file (ag-1.1.dtd): The DTD for the AG format. 

1.6 Source File Text Formats

    All source files have the following tags:

    DOC
    DOCID/DOCNO 
       (published TDT4 files used the DOCNO tag; ATB and CTB files use 
       the DOCID tag)
    TEXT

1.6.1  Chinese Treebank Files/Arabic Treebank Files

    The Chinese treebank files were taken from the published Chinese
    Treebank Version 4 corpus.  The Arabic treebank files were taken from the 
    Arabic Treebank 1 Corpus.  These files have the same headers as the
    original files (e.g., DOCID, HEADLINE, etc.), but the format of the TEXT
    part of the files have been modified in the following way:

    o P tags and S tags have been removed --- sentence boundaries are
      indicated with blank lines.  When there is a new P tag after a
      sentence, an additional blank line is used.

1.6.2  Fisher Telephone Conversation Transcripts

    Speaker IDs are indicated with a single capital letter followed by a
    colon (i.e., A: and B:).  Start and end times have been removed, and
    empty segments (i.e., segments without transcripts) have been removed.

    <TEXT>
    A: what do you think of the topic
    B: so what
    ...

1.7  COPYRIGHT Information

Portions (c) 1994-1998, 2000 Xinhua News Agency
(c) 1997 Department of Information Services, Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region
(c) 1996-1998 & 2000-2001 Sinorama Magazine
(c) 2000 Agence France-Presse, New York Times, Associated Press Newswire, 
Zaobao, An-Nahar, Al-Hayat, Nile TV, Voice of America, Public Radio 
International, Cable News Network, American Broadcasting Corporation, 
National Broadcasting Company, China National Radio, China Television System, 
China Central TV, China Broadcasting System.

The World is a co-production of Public Radio International and the British
Broadcasting Corporation and is produced at WGBH Boston.
